I put out a lot of video content about
how you can crush your next speech but
what I don't often talk about is what
happens when things go wrong what
happens when you bomb your speech
in this video I am going to tell you a
painful personal story of mine where
that exact thing happened I did not
deliver a speech effectively it did not
go well it was incredibly embarrassing
and I'm going to talk about how I
recovered from that experience and tips
I do now to hopefully make sure that
doesn't happen to me in the future hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication and if that is something
you're interested in for example you
want to become a better public speaker I
would really encourage you to subscribe
to my channel turn on those
notifications so you never miss a video
because I will continue to create a lot
of video content about how you can
become a more powerful public speaker a
more impactful Communicator because
let's face it so much of success in life
is based on our ability to communicate
effectively my passion and is teaching
you and learning with you on how we can
do that better and take our
communication skills to the next level
onto that embarrassing story I promised
I'd tell you about
a few years ago I received a call from
our local Probus Club I live in western
Canada if you don't know what a Probus
Club is my understanding is it's like
rotary the Rotary Club however the age
demographic is a little bit older and I
received a call because the particular
organizer of the provis club meeting had
read a newspaper article that I had won
my local Toastmasters humorous speech
competition which was true I had done I
created a pretty good speech it had done
well at a couple of the speech
competitions I won my club competition
and then the area or the city
competition and I was on to the next
level and that organizer of the Probus
Club phoned me and said Wade I would
love to have you come to our next
meeting and deliver your speech our
attendees would love it
perfect I was all in at this point I had
a ton of confidence behind this speech
and the speech was actually my most
embarrassing moment in life so it wasn't
an easy thing to talk about but I had
crafted it in a way that it Incorporated
a lot of self-deprecating humor and it
would always get a strong reaction from
the crowd being completely honest I was
probably too confident that this speech
would do well because the last couple
times I delivered it it received a lot
of laughs and I began to get lazy and to
think oh there's nothing more I need to
do to this speech it is gold no matter
who I deliver the speech to they're
going to love it they're going to think
it is fantastic
and boy was I humbled I walked into the
Probus club meeting and I sat at the
back of the room and I wasn't nervous at
all which by the way in my opinion is
one of the worst signs if you're about
to give a speech because to this day I
still get nerves before I speak I get a
little bit of jitteriness and that is my
body reacting to the opportunity it's
like my body is getting ready and those
nerves are the knowledge of I need to
perform I need to do this well and a
couple times in life I have not had that
feeling I've been overconfident and I'm
not nervous at all and in both of those
instances
they were the worst speeches I have ever
delivered so that's a side tip to you if
you ever have that overconfidence and
you're not nervous at all maybe you're
just that type of person who doesn't get
nerves but I would say on the flip side
if you do feel nervous before a speech
don't think that's a bad thing that's
actually a very good thing based on my
own experience I sat there for about 20
minutes and then finally it was my
opportunity to deliver the speech the
member the organizer of the meeting
called me up I got a modest Round of
Applause and I jumped right into the
speech that had gotten so many laughs in
the past and as I delivered this six
minute-ish speech I noticed that some of
the parts that regularly received humor
from the audience weren't getting any
laughs at all at this Probus club
meeting perhaps it was the age
demographic perhaps it wasn't my focus
on deliver ring emphatically enough the
parts that needed to get laughter but I
was hearing crickets I was halfway
through the speech at no point were
people laughing they were staring at me
like this
just no expression on their face they
weren't finding it funny at all and this
whole point of this speech was a
humorous speech I was supposed to make
them laugh
then I got toward the end of the speech
and as I mentioned it was my most
embarrassing story and this part is
extra cringy and with the audiences
previously when I told the speech and I
delivered that part they because it was
self-deprecating they empathized with my
situation and they laughed because they
felt so bad for me but also the way I
delivered it was effective perhaps again
that overconfidence for whatever reason
I deliver this to the Probus club
members and nobody laughed nobody
laughed at all I went through the speech
from start to finish the whole point was
to make them laugh didn't make them
laugh once I received one person's
Applause afterward a sweet old lady who
was sitting near the front who gave me a
Clap the other people had their arms
folded they looked upset
my tail between my legs I walked back to
the back of the meeting sat there and
the organizer thanked me for coming and
nobody bothered to talk to me the rest
of the meeting and I walked out the door
and it was terrible I bombed that speech
so what did I learn from it first off I
learned that different audiences react
differently and you really need to know
your audience and cater your content
toward them I think one of the reasons I
didn't get laughter is because my speech
was very edgy it was edgy for a 20 or 30
year old audience it was definitely edgy
for a 40 or 50 year old audience a 60 70
80 year old audience it was too edgy for
and I think that is why people had their
arms folded and I thought hey maybe
these people will loosen up they'll find
it funny they did not they were not on
the same level as my humor and that
taught me I needed to adjust it I needed
to soften some of the edgy bits and
maybe incorporate some more
light-hearted humor instead of being so
aggressive that was the first thing I
took the second thing I took was
something I actually managed to do and
that is finish the speech because it was
so hard when I was in the middle of the
speech and I knew that there was no
laughter and I knew even edgier parts of
the speech were coming up I wanted to
quit I wanted to leave I wanted to walk
out right then because I knew it wasn't
going well but it was an important
process to finish the speech even if the
speech didn't finish fantastically it
would have been so much worse if I gave
up in the middle of the speech
since then I've had experiences where
actually I was emceeing a wedding and I
was delivering an edgy story and it
didn't receive humor or laughter early
on but I stuck with it thanks to that
Probus Club experience I knew I couldn't
give up and thankfully it came around
toward the end the audience started
laughing and then the laughter increased
and I was able to get through it but
that's the other piece is that even when
it feels like your speech isn't going
well
keep going keep pushing through who
knows what it is or the reason that your
audience isn't laughing but it's really
important if nothing more or nothing
less as the experience for you as the
speaker to get through that moment and
learn from it the final thing I learned
was the most important and that is never
be overconfident the worst thing you can
do as a speaker is be cocky and think
that no matter what you are going to
absolutely crush this speech because
overconfidence reduces practice I did
not practice enough for that speech in
fact even though it was a speech I had
given a number of times it had been
several weeks from the time I delivered
it at the provis club to how long ago
previously I had delivered it I was
clearly Rusty and I didn't have
everything clear in my head had I
practiced more and had I Incorporated
knowing my audience and delivering to
the actual audience rather than try
trying to do a one size fits-all speech
for everybody I really think I could
have gotten a different reaction I could
have gotten more laughter and that
taught me practice is the number one
thing you will see it on every video
pretty much every video I deliver I talk
about practice because I think it is the
single most important thing to do as a
public speaker that's been my experience
I know that there are some people who
can Wing a speech they have that
incredible talent but I really think
that is less than five percent of the
population most of us need to practice
our speeches the moral of the story is
even if you bomb a speech don't let that
get you down it happens to everyone it
has happened to me multiple times and
the truth is if you can push through get
through it and the quicker you can then
take on another speech afterward these
experiences are what make us stronger as
speakers and the good news is there's
always that next speech but don't quit
keep on going I hope this this video
added a little bit of value for you if
it did please subscribe to my channel
check out the other videos on the
channel as well because I touch on all
sorts of topics about essentially how to
make you a better Communicator thanks so
much and have a great day